lore.md, before:

# Lore
Information about the people, places, and technology of the Maelstrom universe

## Places

## Sol
Birthplace of Humanity, the Sol system remains the most populated of all the settled systems. Major settlements include Earth, Luna, Mars, and Titan. Minor settlements are spread throughout the system on other moons, asteroids, and artificial stations.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about travel, law, politics, etc.  -->

### Earth
Boasting a massive population of over 25 billion people, Earth bears the scars of humankind's industrial and post-industrial development with large sections of the planet considered toxic and inhospitable. With most of the world's ecosystems destroyed, ongoing conservation efforts are needed to maintain life on the planet. Large-scale geoengineering projects seek to maintain the planet's fragile environment. Atmospheric composition and magnetic field strength are almost entirely maintained by massive machinery, along with previously-natural systems such as the North Atlantic Current.

Even with all this technology, most of the planet is unable to support crops or settlements. Most of the planet's residents live in enormous mega cities spread around the globe. Atmospheric scrubbers handle pollution from these cities while sophisticated storm defense networks keep them safe from the powerful storms that ravage the rest of the planet.

Agriculture is conducted entirely indoors with "sustainable buildings" being the norm in many places. These buildings provide residents with essentials such as food, recycled water, and power. Rural areas, outside the major cities, remain mostly unpopulated but support mechanized auto-farms -- heavily reenforced structures in which AI-controlled robotic equipment grow food and other organic resources on an industrial scale. Earth's remaining needs are provided by orbital gardens and imports from other settled planets.

Several extremist groups oppose these technologies and believe that humanity should stop interferring with the planet. These groups have various different rationales, bust most agree that humanity should either leave Earth or die out completely. Attacks on geoengineering projects, auto-farms, and power stations are common. Because of this, as well as the densely-packed population, security on the planet is extremely tight and many regions enforce harsh penalties for even small crimes.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Earth -->

#### Luna
Earth's moon, now officially named Luna, was humanity's second extra-terrestrial colony and first sub-planet-scale terraforming project. Several hundred million people live and work on the surface of Luna in dense colonies. Since the small body does not have enough gravity to maintain a liveable atmosphere by itself, these colonies use atmosphere generators to fill large protective domes. In addition to providing a breathable atmosphere, most of these domes also contain artifical lighting and electrochromic glass in order to maintain an artificial Earth-like day/night cycle. Some of the newer, more comfortable settlements even include gravitic generators so that residents can enjoy Earth-like gravity. (One settlement attempted to use gravitics to contain the atmosphere as well and omit the dome. However, this proved fatal for all residents when the settlement's power generators failed.)

With very few resources available, the primary industries on Luna are research and manufacturing. The low gravity makes it easy to transport material to and from the surface, while the short distance to Earth allows for efficient real-time communication. Because of this, Luna does not have an independant government and is mostly under the shared control of various Earth-based corporations and nations.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Luna -->

## Mars
The site of humanity's first permenant extra-teresstrial colony, Mars has undergone extensive terraforming and supports a breathable -- though thin -- atmosphere. Like Earth, Mars is protected by an artificial magnetic field which makes it safe for humans to travel across most of the planet without special protective equipment.

With planetary gravity approximately 1/3 Earth-normal, most settlements have been equipped with permenant, fixed gravitic generators to increase local gravity to near 1G. However, like on Luna, many Martian settlements take advantage of the lower gravity to make trans-orbital shipment more efficient. 

Mars operates under single independant government but maintains a friendly, cooperative relationship with most factions on Earth. Most corporations are unwilling to risk losing access to the planet's robust mineral resources and manufacturing capability, opting instead of cooperate with the government's strict but fair regulations. On the rare occasion that an outside faction attempts to cease control, the Martian government is more than capable of defending itself. This was demonstrated during the Martian Corporate War, when an conglomerate of Earth-based mega corporations attempted to annex the small planet. With one exception, the corporations involved no longer exist.

### Phobos and Deimos
Mars's tiny moons, Phobos and Deimos, are too small to support colonization. At 22km and 13km accross, respectively, they bear a closer resemblance to asteroids than they do to Earth's moon Luna. As part of the terraforming of Mars, geoengineers stabilized and circularized the orbit of Phobos in order to serve as a near-Martian transportation depot for orbital shuttles. Deimos was set up as a secondary refueling and repair outpost for interplanetary ships.

With the introduction of more advanced propulsion technologies, both outposts have been mostly supplanted and have fallen into disrepair. Efforts have been proposed to make use of these structures again, but the Martian government has declared them to be of "great historical significance" and will not approve any such plans. After several reported acts of vandalism and illegal salvage, the sites are off-limits to visitors in order to prevent further damage. Naturally, there are many conspiracy theories claiming that the moons are actually being used for secret, dangerous experiments instead. However, no credible evidence supports these claims and it is unlikely that any operation could go undetected on such a small body for any length of time.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Mars -->

## Alpha Centauri

<!-- TODO Describe the pre-FTL colonization of Alpha Centauri -->

## Maelstrom

<!-- TODO Describe Maelstrom and the Maelstrom Oasis -->

## Technology

Commit message:

Started describing Jupiter and Titan

lore.md, after:

# Lore
Information about the people, places, and technology of the Maelstrom universe

## Places

## Sol
Birthplace of Humanity, the Sol system remains the most populated of all the settled systems. Major settlements include Earth, Luna, Mars, and Titan. Minor settlements are spread throughout the system on other moons, asteroids, and artificial stations.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about travel, law, politics, etc.  -->

### Earth
Boasting a massive population of over 25 billion people, Earth bears the scars of humankind's industrial and post-industrial development with large sections of the planet considered toxic and inhospitable. With most of the world's ecosystems destroyed, ongoing conservation efforts are needed to maintain life on the planet. Large-scale geoengineering projects seek to maintain the planet's fragile environment. Atmospheric composition and magnetic field strength are almost entirely maintained by massive machinery, along with previously-natural systems such as the North Atlantic Current.

Even with all this technology, most of the planet is unable to support crops or settlements. Most of the planet's residents live in enormous mega cities spread around the globe. Atmospheric scrubbers handle pollution from these cities while sophisticated storm defense networks keep them safe from the powerful storms that ravage the rest of the planet.

Agriculture is conducted entirely indoors with "sustainable buildings" being the norm in many places. These buildings provide residents with essentials such as food, recycled water, and power. Rural areas, outside the major cities, remain mostly unpopulated but support mechanized auto-farms -- heavily reenforced structures in which AI-controlled robotic equipment grow food and other organic resources on an industrial scale. Earth's remaining needs are provided by orbital gardens and imports from other settled planets.

Several extremist groups oppose these technologies and believe that humanity should stop interferring with the planet. These groups have various different rationales, bust most agree that humanity should either leave Earth or die out completely. Attacks on geoengineering projects, auto-farms, and power stations are common. Because of this, as well as the densely-packed population, security on the planet is extremely tight and many regions enforce harsh penalties for even small crimes.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Earth -->

#### Luna
Earth's moon, now officially named Luna, was humanity's second extra-terrestrial colony and first sub-planet-scale terraforming project. Several hundred million people live and work on the surface of Luna in dense colonies. Since the small body does not have enough gravity to maintain a liveable atmosphere by itself, these colonies use atmosphere generators to fill large protective domes. In addition to providing a breathable atmosphere, most of these domes also contain artifical lighting and electrochromic glass in order to maintain an artificial Earth-like day/night cycle. Some of the newer, more comfortable settlements even include gravitic generators so that residents can enjoy Earth-like gravity. (One settlement attempted to use gravitics to contain the atmosphere as well and omit the dome. However, this proved fatal for all residents when the settlement's power generators failed.)

With very few resources available, the primary industries on Luna are research and manufacturing. The low gravity makes it easy to transport material to and from the surface, while the short distance to Earth allows for efficient real-time communication. Because of this, Luna does not have an independant government and is mostly under the shared control of various Earth-based corporations and nations.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Luna -->

## Mars
The site of humanity's first permenant extra-teresstrial colony, Mars has undergone extensive terraforming and supports a breathable -- though thin -- atmosphere. Like Earth, Mars is protected by an artificial magnetic field which makes it safe for humans to travel across most of the planet without special protective equipment.

With planetary gravity approximately 1/3 Earth-normal, most settlements have been equipped with permenant, fixed gravitic generators to increase local gravity to near 1G. However, like on Luna, many Martian settlements take advantage of the lower gravity to make trans-orbital shipment more efficient. 

Mars operates under single independant government but maintains a friendly, cooperative relationship with most factions on Earth. Most corporations are unwilling to risk losing access to the planet's robust mineral resources and manufacturing capability, opting instead of cooperate with the government's strict but fair regulations. On the rare occasion that an outside faction attempts to cease control, the Martian government is more than capable of defending itself. This was demonstrated during the Martian Corporate War, when an conglomerate of Earth-based mega corporations attempted to annex the small planet. With one exception, the corporations involved no longer exist.

### Phobos and Deimos
Mars's tiny moons, Phobos and Deimos, are too small to support colonization. At 22km and 13km accross, respectively, they bear a closer resemblance to asteroids than they do to Earth's moon Luna. As part of the terraforming of Mars, geoengineers stabilized and circularized the orbit of Phobos in order to serve as a near-Martian transportation depot for orbital shuttles. Deimos was set up as a secondary refueling and repair outpost for interplanetary ships.

With the introduction of more advanced propulsion technologies, both outposts have been mostly supplanted and have fallen into disrepair. Efforts have been proposed to make use of these structures again, but the Martian government has declared them to be of "great historical significance" and will not approve any such plans. After several reported acts of vandalism and illegal salvage, the sites are off-limits to visitors in order to prevent further damage. Naturally, there are many conspiracy theories claiming that the moons are actually being used for secret, dangerous experiments instead. However, no credible evidence supports these claims and it is unlikely that any operation could go undetected on such a small body for any length of time.

<!-- TODO Provide vital statistics about Mars -->

## Jupiter
Jupiter has no surface and cannot support human life directly. However, vast quanties of elemental hydrogen make the gas giant a treasure trove for gas mining operations. The vast majority of all fuel used by humanity was mined from Jupiter's atmosphere and processed on one of her moons.

### Titan
Jupiter's largest moon.
<!-- TODO Describe Titan -->

<!-- TODO Describe more planets/moons in the Sol system. -->

## Alpha Centauri

<!-- TODO Describe the pre-FTL colonization of Alpha Centauri -->

## Maelstrom

<!-- TODO Describe Maelstrom and the Maelstrom Oasis -->

## Technology
