Rules.md, before:

# Rules
The following rules provide a framework to help a storytellers and players build their characters, take challenging actions, snd get in fights. As with other roleplaying games, it's important to remember that the rules are only there to support the story and not to get in the way of it; storytellers are encouraged to adjust the rules where necessary to make things more fun, cinematic, or engaging.

## Characters
### Backgrounds
### Traits
#### Attributes
##### Physical
###### Strength
###### Precision
###### Reflexes
###### Fortitute
##### Mental
###### Intelligence
###### Wisdom
###### Technology
###### Willpower
##### Social
#### Abilities
##### Talents
##### Skills
##### Knowledges
### Health
### Equipment

## Actions
Characters do many things in the world; they drive cars, fly spaceships, shoot guns, investigate crime scenes, and so much more. Many of these actions are mundane or trivial and only require saying what your character is doing. (Nobody wants to roll die to eat breakfast or drive their car through normal traffic.) For everything else, characters use their attributes and abilies, along with some dice, to determine if they succeed, fail, or royally screw things up.

### Selecting an action
The first step of performaing an action is to decide what your character is going to do and announce it. You might say, for example, "I hop on the motorcycle and fire it up." For many actions, this is all that's required. But for some actions, the storyteller may have you roll for it. The storyteller should take the situation into account as well when deciding whether players should roll. After all, it's really easy to start a motorcycle in your driveway for a lazy drive but it's a whole other thing to start it while under fire and trying to escape with your life.

Some actions are also just straight up impossible. No matter how much you say "I fly like a bird!" the only thing your character will end up doing is flapping their arms like a lunatic. Generally, the storyteller won't have you roll for these and just tell you that you fail or suggest that your character would know it was impossible before you even attempt it. However, a particularly mean storyteller may have you roll anyway, purely to determine exactly how hilariously you screw up.

When you announce an action that your storteller wants you to roll for, they'll decide which traits you'll need to use as well as how difficult the action is. The selected traits will make up your dice pool for the action: one die per dot in each trait.

> **Example**: You're start your motorcycle and get away from the people shooting at you. The storyteller decides that to get the key in the ignition, start the bike, and take off without stalling it is going to require the precision attribute. Your character has three dots in precision and two dots in drive, so you're going to roll a total of five dice.

### Rolling the Dice
<!-- TODO Describe how to roll dice to determine successes. -->
#### Counting Successes
#### Succeed, Fail, or Botch?

### Determining Difficulty
<!-- TODO Describe how to determine what the difficulty should be -->
(_Oh no! There's a section missing here! Don't worry, I'm sure it'll turn up._)

At difficulty 10, a single die is as likely to botch as it is to succeed. Higher than that and success is completely impossible, since you can't roll an 11 on a ten-sided die. Because of this, it's usually a good idea to add a threshold instead of increasing the difficulty above 8 or 9.

### Determining Threshold
Some actions are so difficult that a simple success isn't enough and one or more successes are needed just to break even before progress can be made. For these actions, the storyteller can set a "threshold" of success. This threshold counts against any successes a character rolls, _before_ any ones are are counted. This not only makes it harder to get a success, but also makes it easier to botch. A little threshold goes a long way.

Usually, a threshold is used to set a task that is just extremely difficult to perform. In these cases, the action's difficulty is also set high. Just be sure to keep in mind that, with a high difficulty, the average number of rolled successes will be low. At difficulty 9, even a threshold of 1 makes for an extremely challenging feat. The odds of a botch are high and odds of failure even higher.

Thresholds can also be used to make tasks that aren't particularly difficult, but where there's a lot that can go wrong. This represents the need of the character to get a bunch of things right in order to succeed in their objective. In these cases, the action's difficulty is set lower -- somtimes even lower than normal -- and a reasonable threshold is used.

> **Example**: "You climb the stairs and find yourself at the landing pad. There's no railings here, but there's a guard standing near the edge ahead of you. It's really windy all the way up here but you're pretty sure the metalic floor will make it extremely hard to sneak past him without being heard." describes the storyteller. The player decides she wants to charge the guard and push him over the edge before he can react.
>
> Considering the situation, the storyteller offers a choice: "It'd be so, so easy to budge him off the ledge, but you recognize that the loud, slippery floor makes this super dangerous. In game terms, it'll be strength plus athletics at difficulty 5 and a 2 threshhold. You gonna go for it?" The player's character has pretty good stats and she decides to risk it. She picks up the dice...
>
> With a threshold of two, the player will immediately discard two successes from her roll. If she has no remaining successes and any ones, she botches. Otherwise, she subtracts her ones from her successes as usual. There's a few possible outcomes:
> - If she has at least one success remaining, she'll successfully push the guard off the edge. Only one success might give her a bit of a frightening close call, while more will have her move quickly and quietly.
> - If she has no remaining successes, but didn't botch, the guard hears her coming and pushes her back. They're both still on the platform but it's probably going to be a pretty scary fight.
> - If she botched, she successfully pushes the guard but slips and goes over the edge as well. The storyteller offers a reflex + strength check to try and grab onto the edge just in time.

<!-- TODO Put in a table of average successes for die pool and difficulty -->


## Combat
### Turns
### Attacking
### Evading
### Taking Damage

Commit message:

Added actions and dice pool

Rules.md, after:

# Rules
The following rules provide a framework to help a storytellers and players build their characters, take challenging actions, snd get in fights. As with other roleplaying games, it's important to remember that the rules are only there to support the story and not to get in the way of it; storytellers are encouraged to adjust the rules where necessary to make things more fun, cinematic, or engaging.

## Characters
### Backgrounds
### Traits
#### Attributes
##### Physical
###### Strength
###### Precision
###### Reflexes
###### Fortitute
##### Mental
###### Intelligence
###### Wisdom
###### Technology
###### Willpower
##### Social
#### Abilities
##### Talents
##### Skills
##### Knowledges
### Health
### Equipment

## Actions
Characters do many things in the world; they drive cars, fly spaceships, shoot guns, investigate crime scenes, and so much more. Many of these actions are mundane or trivial and only require saying what your character is doing. (Nobody wants to roll die to eat breakfast or drive their car through normal traffic.) For everything else, characters use their attributes and abilies, along with some dice, to determine if they succeed, fail, or royally screw things up.

### Declaring an action
The first step of performaing an action is to decide what your character is going to do and announce it. You might say, for example, "I hop on the motorcycle and fire it up." For many actions, this is all that's required. But for some actions, the storyteller may have you roll for it. The storyteller should take the situation into account as well when deciding whether players should roll. After all, it's really easy to start a motorcycle in your driveway for a lazy drive but it's a whole other thing to start it while under fire and trying to escape with your life.

Some actions are also just straight up impossible. No matter how much you say "I fly like a bird!" the only thing your character will end up doing is flapping their arms like a lunatic. Generally, the storyteller won't have you roll for these and just tell you that you fail or suggest that your character would know it was impossible before you even attempt it. However, a particularly mean storyteller may have you roll anyway, purely to determine exactly how hilariously you screw up.

While everything your character does is technically an action, you generally need to think about them individually. Outside of combat, players should just roleplay their characters, decide what they want to do, and do it. Try to avoid things like "Can I make a stealth check?" or "What do I need to roll to search the room?" Instead, just describe what your character is doing: "I blend into the crowd and try to get out the back unnoticed" or "I grab my forensics kit and search the room, looking for anything that might be relevant to the case."  When a roll is needed, the storyteller will say so.

### The Dice Pool
When you announce an action that your storteller wants you to roll for, they'll decide which traits you'll need to use. Usually, this will be an attribute and an ability. However, occasionally be one or two attributes without an ability. While there may sometimes be only one trait used, there should never be more than two. The number of dice you'll roll, called your dice pool, is determined how many dots you have in each of those traits: one die per dot for each trait.

> **Example:** You're taking fire and decide to start your motorcycle and get away. The storyteller thinks that getting the key in the ignition, starting the bike, and taking off without stalling it is going to require precise movements and familiarity with the bike. She says to roll Precision + Drive. Your character has three dots in Precision and two dots in Drive, so your dice pool contains a total of five dice.

Many actions can be accomplished in many different ways and with many different traits. Rather than just stating which action you'd like to perform, it's usually better to describe how you're trying to go about it. This will help the storyteller determine which traits to use and makes sure that your character performs the action in the way you intended. This also helps build your character's personality and demeanor in the minds of other players and leads to a richer roleplaying experience for everyone.

After you declare an action, the storyteller may offer a choice of different ways of performing it. They may also tell you which traits would be used for each option. While it can be tempting to just use whichever option gives you the larger dice pool, it's important to consider your character's personality and what their objectives are. Just because you're better at doing something a certain way doesn't necessarily mean that's the right way to try and do it. Keep in mind that different approaches may have different difficulties as well, so just having more dice doesn't mean it's going to be easier.

> **Example:** "I'm going to make my way through the crowd and follow the target." you announce. The storyteller asks you if you'd like to push and shove people out of the way with Strength + Brawling or slip through gaps in the crowd with Precision + Streetwise. You know you'd have more dice if you brute force your way through but you also know that your character wouldn't want to make a big scene and draw attention. So, you decide to take the smaller dice pool and slip through the crowd instead.

### Rolling the Dice
<!-- TODO Describe how to roll dice to determine successes. -->
#### Counting Successes
#### Succeed, Fail, or Botch?

### Determining Difficulty
<!-- TODO Describe how to determine what the difficulty should be -->
(_Oh no! There's a section missing here! Don't worry, I'm sure it'll turn up._)

At difficulty 10, a single die is as likely to botch as it is to succeed. Higher than that and success is completely impossible, since you can't roll an 11 on a ten-sided die. Because of this, it's usually a good idea to add a threshold instead of increasing the difficulty above 8 or 9.

### Determining Threshold
Some actions are so difficult that a simple success isn't enough and one or more successes are needed just to break even before progress can be made. For these actions, the storyteller can set a "threshold" of success. This threshold counts against any successes a character rolls, _before_ any ones are are counted. This not only makes it harder to get a success, but also makes it easier to botch. A little threshold goes a long way.

Usually, a threshold is used to set a task that is just extremely difficult to perform. In these cases, the action's difficulty is also set high. Just be sure to keep in mind that, with a high difficulty, the average number of rolled successes will be low. At difficulty 9, even a threshold of 1 makes for an extremely challenging feat. The odds of a botch are high and odds of failure even higher.

Thresholds can also be used to make tasks that aren't particularly difficult, but where there's a lot that can go wrong. This represents the need of the character to get a bunch of things right in order to succeed in their objective. In these cases, the action's difficulty is set lower -- somtimes even lower than normal -- and a reasonable threshold is used.

> **Example**: "You climb the stairs and find yourself at the landing pad. There's no railings here, but there's a guard standing near the edge ahead of you. It's really windy all the way up here but you're pretty sure the metalic floor will make it extremely hard to sneak past him without being heard." describes the storyteller. The player decides she wants to charge the guard and push him over the edge before he can react.
>
> Considering the situation, the storyteller offers a choice: "It'd be so, so easy to budge him off the ledge, but you recognize that the loud, slippery floor makes this super dangerous. In game terms, it'll be strength plus athletics at difficulty 5 and a 2 threshhold. You gonna go for it?" The player's character has pretty good stats and she decides to risk it. She picks up the dice...
>
> With a threshold of two, the player will immediately discard two successes from her roll. If she has no remaining successes and any ones, she botches. Otherwise, she subtracts her ones from her successes as usual. There's a few possible outcomes:
> - If she has at least one success remaining, she'll successfully push the guard off the edge. Only one success might give her a bit of a frightening close call, while more will have her move quickly and quietly.
> - If she has no remaining successes, but didn't botch, the guard hears her coming and pushes her back. They're both still on the platform but it's probably going to be a pretty scary fight.
> - If she botched, she successfully pushes the guard but slips and goes over the edge as well. The storyteller offers a reflex + strength check to try and grab onto the edge just in time.

<!-- TODO Put in a table of average successes for die pool and difficulty -->


## Combat
### Turns
### Attacking
### Evading
### Taking Damage
